---
layout: post  
title: "Buiding a RetroPi Arcade"
published: false  
---

I grew up during the 70's and 80's when you (mostly) had to go to an
arcade to play aracade games. My favorites were the early vector style
games like
[Asteroids](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Asteroids_(video_game)),
[Missile Command](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Missile_Command), [Battle
Zone](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Battlezone_(1980_video_game)) and
[Qix](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Qix).

![My daughter playing Pacman](http://i.imgur.com/hqYurbh.jpg)

Given the availability of cheap, credit-card sized computers like the
[Raspberry Pi](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Raspberry_Pi), it's
relatively easy to recreate the arcade gaming experience of those
halcyon days.

### So where to start?

There a lots of options. The traditional route is to repurpose an old
desktop computer. This approach provides plenty of computer power and
ultimate hack-a-bility. It also requires some detailed knowledge of
operating systems, hardware and controller interfaces.

If you don't have a donor computer or simply want a simpler setup, you
can buy a capable computer the size of a credit-card for about 35
dollars. Really, 35 dollars. And this is a real computer with HDMI, USB
and sound ports. Pretty amazing when you think about it.

### By the monitor first

Why? Because the monitor determines the size cabinet.

As to which monitor, buy one with a digital interface. What's a digital
interface you say? HDMI or DVI. Stay away from VGA unless you have one
already. While VGA works it requires a special converter cable (not
converter, not adapter). These cables can be pricey. HDMI is your best
choice because that's the output the Raspberry Pi supports natively.

I bought my monitor on EBay for 35 dollars shipped. It was a VGA
monitor. My mistake, which is why I mention it here. You'll see other
guides talk about wide-screen vs. 4:3 ratios. I found it doesn't matter.
Most any recent vintage monitor will do.

![A cheap computer monitor](http://i.imgur.com/6U6MytU.jpg)

### You don't need power tools

Just a quick note. You'll see I have a nice little work shop with a
table saw, jointer, etc. It's not require. You can do this all with a
hand saw and block plane. Other than breaking down larger sheets, this
is how I mostly do it. More on this later.

### The cabinet

If you're feeling like the cabinet is more than you can take on, you can
buy one. I recommend [http://](https://gameroomsolutions.com/). They
have a kit for 230 dollars that's hard to beat. It requires a screw
driver to assemble and can accommodate a monitor up to 22 inches wide.
I'm planning on building a second arcade and this is the route I'm
going.

If you're going the build route, here's the [plans I
used](http://www.instructables.com/id/2-Player-Bartop-Arcade-Machine-Powered-by-Pi/).

I make a template out of thin plywood for non-rectilinear shapes. I
found it's easier to make consistent parts. Also, if I make a mistake,
I've only wasted some cheap plywood.

I made the template by drawing the image directly on the plywood based
on the provided measurements. For the curve, I used a large compass.
